My name is John Jquish. I'm a doctor of
biomedical engineering, which gives me a
unique perspective on many issues in
fitness and nutrition. And today we're
going to be talking about the sugar
diet. Some of you may have heard of this
new fat diet where all you do is consume
sugar.
[Music]
Apparently, what's on the menu for this
diet is Coca-Cola, so you don't worry
about high fruc fructose corn syrup uh
or candy. That's in the diet, too. Uh
you're basically trying to avoid protein
and fats and just have pure
carbohydrates. I want to make something
about myself really clear before going
into this. I don't do the kind of
fitness industry call out thing where I
specifically say this individual doesn't
know what he's talking about or
whatever. I think that's really dumb and
toxic. And the fitness industry
unfortunately seems to be interested in
who is right as opposed to what is
right. And it should be the opposite.
What is right should be the only thing
that anybody cares about. And it doesn't
matter who the messenger is because
people are fallible. Ideas, however, can
be infallible if we have the right ones
and we have the right evidence to back
those ideas up. I don't want this to be
seen as me attacking anyone in
particular. Most of the bad information
that's out there in fitness and
nutrition
just has to do with misinterpretations
of the data. some of them intentional.
Like for example, the snack food
industry has done a very good job of
fooling the public that eating these
snack foods is totally fine and they can
they can do that uh however much they
want. So, the sugar diet uh this is
probably one of the dumbest things I've
ever seen.
It is it is a diet that promises weight
loss. So, okay, weight loss is a good
thing, right? Well, um, if it comes with
a lot of
problems that it could cause,
like diabetes for example, uh, then I I
don't I don't think it's something that
people should really be discussing. But
I just want to keep people from falling
into this trap. And also I want to point
out that the people who are promoting
this sugar diet,
they're not telling you it's healthy,
which is good because it's not. They're
talking about just pure weight loss. I I
don't think even from an academic
perspective
or just from an experiment perspective
that anybody should really do this.
They're really just demonstrating that
if you just eat sugar, you're going to
get sick of eating sugar so that your
calories will be low and you'll
ultimately end up losing body fat. The
problem here is because the snack food
industry has presented data
strategically and paid off uh
individuals in various governing bodies
over nutrition
uh to basically promote
fraudulent research or misleading
research that we don't really have a
good grasp on how damaging
refined sugar is. So the the processed
kind. Now is it better to eat fruits as
opposed to eating candy bars? Yeah. Way
better because fiber comes with the
sugar in nature, fructose, and it slows
down the absorption of that sugar. So
like if you see somebody eat a candy
bar, they have a high glucose spike. If
they have an apple, it's a little bit
dulled. And it is those peaks that tend
to be where the
the glucose gets stored. Now, it's a
little bit different with fructose. Uh I
know like a lot of people think fruit
because it grows it must be just good
for you. Uh yeah, there's a lot of
things that grow that are not good for
you. So, that argument sucks uh and is
easily disproven. But what I want
everyone to do who's considering doing
this, you need to Google the term
glycation.
So glycation is basically the failing of
tissues
based on
the
constant prevalence of too much glucose
and insulin. Dr. Sean Baker is a good
friend of mine. He frequently talks
about uh he's an orthopedic surgeon and
when he cuts into uh a joint when he has
to do a joint replacement or do some
orthopedic work
when it's a young person the bone and
the tendons and ligaments are bright
white and if you've ever watched a
surgery video on a young person that's
the way it looks sometimes in an older
person and this had been previously seen
as
aging
But it's not. It's exposure to too much
carbohydrates
over extended periods of time. And what
is too much? I'll get to that. When Dr.
Baker is operating on someone who has
had some glycation,
the bone becomes yellow instead of white
and the tendons become an e even darker
yellowing.
And this makes the tendons and ligaments
brittle and the bone more porous and
brittle
and basically poorer functioning.
Glycation of skin is uh excessive
wrinkles. So that basically your skin
loses its elasticity because as it's
been overexposed to glucose it becomes
problematic. It's a it's a failing
tissue based on exposure
uh to to excessive glucose. So, and I
when I say Google it, I mean, I'm going
to show you on the screen what it is,
but I want everybody to realize I'm not
making this term up, and this is being
discussed quite a bit. You don't want to
go down this path. You don't want to
overexpose yourself to glucose. Uh the
fact that people are losing weight doing
this, okay? You know, I mean, get your
legs amputated.
You could lose weight doing that.
Obviously, that's crazy. Uh nobody would
do that. Don't do the sugar diet either
because that's I mean it's not the same
thing but wow is it a terrible idea and
it's going to paint you into a very
negative health situation that u you
don't want to be in. So I urge you to
control carbohydrate consumption. Um, I
did promise
I would give you the best indication of
what levels of carbohydrates we should
have. Um, also I should mention I don't
really like titles of nutrition like you
know so and so does the carnivore diet
except I know 20 people who do the
carnivore diet and all of them have a
different definition of what that is. So
putting labels on stuff,
I don't like that. Uh but I will say
that there's an amazing metaanalysis by
Menow Henzelman's where he demonstrates
that for strength athletes that the
maximum amount of carbohydrates that you
need in a day to replenish all of your
muscle glycogen is only 20 grams.
So, I'm not saying go zero carbs
necessarily.
Having muscle glycogen at a higher level
is good, especially if you want to look
good. So, like there is a balance
between if you want to be as healthy as
possible,
maybe zero carbohydrates are the answer.
But then, you know, from an aesthetic
standpoint, you're you're going to look
kind of flat. So, I'll admit that. And
and even Professor Bart K has talked
about like if you want to look as good
as possible, you can't really be zero
carb, but you really got to be conscious
that you just want the minimum amount.
And that minimum amount seems to be 20 g
per day. You guys should probably write
that down. If this video helped you, I
want you to subscribe and follow. I'm
going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights. We've got the answer for you.